Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2010-08-03T21:41:33.862866

====== 3.1 Installing GRUB using grub-install ======
Created Tuesday 03 August 2010

*Caution:* This procedure is definitely less safe, because there are
several ways in which your computer can become unbootable. For example,
most operating systems don't tell GRUB how to map BIOS drives to OS
devices correctly--GRUB merely "guesses" the mapping. This will succeed
in most cases, but not always. Therefore, GRUB provides you with a map
file called the "device map", which you must fix if it is wrong. *Note
Device map::, for more details.

   If you still do want to install GRUB under a UNIX-like OS (such as
GNU), invoke the program `grub-install' (*note Invoking grub-install::)
as the superuser ("root").

   The usage is basically very simple. You only need to specify one
argument to the program, namely, where to install the boot loader. The
argument can be either a device file (like `/dev/hda') or a partition
specified in GRUB's notation. For example, under Linux the following
will install GRUB into the MBR of the first IDE disk:

     # grub-install /dev/hda

   Likewise, under GNU/Hurd, this has the same effect:

     # grub-install /dev/hd0

   If it is the first BIOS drive, this is the same as well:

     # grub-install '(hd0)'

   Or you can omit the parentheses:

     # grub-install hd0
 But all the above examples assume that GRUB should use images under
the root directory. If you want GRUB to use images under a directory
other than the root directory, you need to specify the option
`--root-directory'. The typical usage is that you create a GRUB boot
floppy with a filesystem. Here is an example:

     # mke2fs /dev/fd0
     # mount -t ext2 /dev/fd0 /mnt
     # grub-install --root-directory=/mnt fd0
     # umount /mnt

   Another example is when you have a separate boot partition which is
mounted at `/boot'. Since GRUB is a boot loader, it doesn't know
anything about mountpoints at all. Thus, you need to run `grub-install'
like this:

     # grub-install --root-directory=/boot /dev/hda

   By the way, as noted above, it is quite difficult to guess BIOS
drives correctly under a UNIX-like OS. Thus, `grub-install' will prompt
you to check if it could really guess the correct mappings, after the
installation. The format is defined in *note Device map::. Please be
quite careful. If the output is wrong, it is unlikely that your
computer will be able to boot with no problem.

   Note that `grub-install' is actually just a shell script and the
real task is done by the grub shell `grub' (*note Invoking the grub
shell::). Therefore, you may run `grub' directly to install GRUB,
without using `grub-install'. Don't do that, however, unless you are
very familiar with the internals of GRUB. Installing a boot loader on a
running OS may be extremely dangerous.

